System Requirements
===================

This documentation assumes that your Ether Cattle cluster will run on Linux
servers. It is likely possible to run Ether Cattle on other operating systems,
but that is outside the scope of this document.

Master
------
* **vCPU**: 2
* **RAM**: 8 GB
* **Disk**: >250 GB SSD

The master needs high performance disks to be able to sync the blockchain.
Because of the replication process, the master's disks have higher requirements
than a typical disk.

Replicas
--------
* **vCPU**: 1
* **RAM**: 2 GB
* **Disk**: >250 GB HDD

For basic operation, Replicas have very low resource requirements. Synchronizing
from the master does not require high performance disks, however heavy RPC
request workloads may necessitate faster disks.

Kafka
-----

Cluster: 3 Nodes
* **vCPU**: 1
* **RAM**: 2 GB
* **Disk**: 100 GB HDD

EtherCattle's use of Kafka is not very taxing by Kafka's standards, and so your
Kafka cluster's specs do not need to be very high. HDDs are fine, as Kafka
performs primarily sequential read / writes. It is possible to host multiple
replica clusters on a single Kafka cluster, in which case you may need
additional disk space. Managing Kafka can be somewhat challenging, and its
importance for the stability of an EtherCattle cluster cannot be understated.
Depending on your organizations needs, you may do well to find a managed Kafka
provider.

Snapshotting
------------

Ether Cattle relies on the ability to make volume level snapshots of Geth's
chaindata folder. These snapshots need to be atomic, but if necessary that can
be achieved by stopping a synced replica. Snapshots need to be taken more
frequently than Kafka's retention period (default: 7 days), so that new replicas
can spin up with a snapshot, then sync from Kafka.

Depending on your snapshotting solution, you should be aware that volumes
freshly created from snapshots may not perform as well as normal volumes. See if
your snapshotting solution documents options for "warming" volumes, as this may
be necessary when creating a new master from a snapshot.
